.TH MU2EDAQ\-START 1 "June 2026" "mu2edaq-downtime-logger 0.1.0" "Mu2e DAQ Tools"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-start \- start the mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B start\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-log\-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
[\fB\-\-log\-file\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-foreground\fR]
[\fB\-\-\fR \fIEXTRA_ARGS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B start\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh
activates the Python virtual environment and launches
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1).
By default the application is started in the background; a PID file is
written to prevent accidental double-starts.
.PP
If no virtual environment is found under \fIvenv/\fR the script runs
.B bootstrap.sh
automatically before launching the application.
.PP
Background output (stdout and stderr) is appended to
\fImu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.log\fR in the project directory unless
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR
Path to the YAML configuration file.
Default: \fBconfig/local.yaml\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR
Application log level: \fBDEBUG\fR, \fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR, or
\fBERROR\fR. Default: \fBINFO\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR \fIFILE\fR
Redirect background output to \fIFILE\fR instead of the default log file.
.TP
.B \-\-foreground
Run the application in the foreground instead of the background.
The PID file is not written in foreground mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR \fIEXTRA_ARGS\fR
All arguments after \fB\-\-\fR are passed directly to
\fBmu2edaq\-downtime\-logger\fR.
.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.pid
PID file written when the application starts in background mode.
Removed automatically on clean stop.
.TP
.I mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.log
Default log file for background output.
.TP
.I venv/
Python virtual environment. Created by \fBbootstrap.sh\fR if absent.
.TP
.I config/local.yaml
Default configuration file.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits non-zero if the application is already running (stale PID file
excepted) or if a required option is missing.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start with the local development configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./start\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start with the production configuration and a custom log file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./start\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh \\
    \-\-config config/config.example.yaml \\
    \-\-log\-file /var/log/mu2edaq/downtime.log
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run in the foreground with debug logging:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./start\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh \-\-foreground \-\-log\-level DEBUG
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mu2edaq\-stop (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-bootstrap (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1)
