.TH MU2EDAQ\-STOP 1 "June 2026" "mu2edaq-downtime-logger 0.1.0" "Mu2e DAQ Tools"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-stop \- stop the mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stop\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh
[\fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISECS\fR]
[\fB\-\-force\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stop\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh
stops a
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1)
process that was started with
.BR start\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh (1).
.PP
The script reads the PID from \fImu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.pid\fR, sends
\fBSIGTERM\fR, and waits up to \fB\-\-timeout\fR seconds for the process to
exit cleanly. If the process has not exited by the timeout, \fBSIGKILL\fR
is sent. The PID file is removed on exit.
.PP
If no PID file is present the script exits with status 0 without error.
A stale PID file (process no longer running) is detected and removed
automatically.
.PP
After the process stops, the script removes the local test directory
\fI/tmp/daq\-test\fR if it exists, cleaning up files left by the
diagnostic tools.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISECS\fR
Seconds to wait for a clean \fBSIGTERM\fR shutdown before escalating to
\fBSIGKILL\fR. Default: \fB10\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Send \fBSIGKILL\fR immediately without attempting a graceful shutdown.
.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.pid
PID file read by this script. Must exist in the project root directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits 0 in all cases except unknown option errors.
.SH EXAMPLES
Stop with a 30-second graceful timeout:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./stop\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh \-\-timeout 30
.fi
.RE
.PP
Kill immediately:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./stop\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh \-\-force
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mu2edaq\-start (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1)
