.TH MU2EDAQ\-ZMQ\-PUBLISH 1 "June 2026" "mu2edaq-downtime-logger 0.1.0" "Mu2e DAQ Tools"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-zmq\-publish \- ZeroMQ PUB diagnostic for ZmqDetector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python \-m tools.zmq_publish
[\fB\-\-endpoint\fR \fIEP\fR]
[\fB\-\-topic\fR \fITOPIC\fR]
[\fB\-\-state\fR \fISTATE\fR]
[\fB\-\-interval\fR \fISECS\fR]
[\fB\-\-once\fR]
[\fB\-\-message\fR \fITEXT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zmq_publish
binds a ZeroMQ PUB socket and publishes state messages or heartbeats in the
format that
.B ZmqDetector
expects. Use it to simulate a running or stopped DAQ without live hardware.
.PP
By default the tool publishes every second until interrupted with Ctrl-C.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-endpoint\fR \fIEP\fR
ZMQ bind endpoint. Default: \fBtcp://*:5555\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-topic\fR \fITOPIC\fR
Topic prefix prepended to the message body. Default: empty string
(subscribe-all).
.TP
\fB\-\-state\fR \fI{running,stopped,heartbeat}\fR
Predefined state to publish. Produces the message body
\fBRUN STATE running\fR, \fBRUN STATE stopped\fR, or
\fBheartbeat tick\fR respectively. Overridden by \fB\-\-message\fR.
Default: \fBrunning\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-interval\fR \fISECS\fR
Seconds between publishes. Default: \fB1.0\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-once
Publish a single message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-message\fR \fITEXT\fR
Override the message body with arbitrary text, ignoring \fB\-\-state\fR.
.SH NOTES
ZMQ PUB sockets drop messages until subscribers have completed the
handshake. The tool sleeps 300 ms after binding before sending the first
message to allow slow-joiner subscribers to connect.
.SH EXAMPLES
Simulate a running DAQ:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.zmq_publish \-\-state running \-\-interval 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Send a one-shot stop signal:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.zmq_publish \-\-state stopped \-\-once
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mu2edaq\-udp\-broadcast (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1)
