.TH MU2EDAQ\-DOWNTIME\-LOGGER 1 "June 2026" "mu2edaq-downtime-logger 0.1.0" "Mu2e DAQ Tools"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger \- monitor and record Mu2e DAQ downtime events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR
[\fB\-\-log\-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger
is a Qt desktop application that monitors the Mu2e DAQ system and records
downtime events to a persistent storage backend (SQLite by default).
.PP
Detection is plugin-based: any combination of ZeroMQ, UDP, SOAP,
disk-activity, and log-file scanner detectors feed a weighted score.
When the score crosses a configurable trip threshold a dismissible popup
prompts the shifter for details (category, subsystem, cause, notes).
The event is closed automatically when the score drops below the clear
threshold and is persisted in the configured storage backend.
.PP
An optional read-only HTTP server exposes the current status, a summary
and report page with date-range filtering, and a JSON API for dashboards
and programmatic clients.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR
Path to the YAML configuration file. Required.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR
Python logging level. One of \fBDEBUG\fR, \fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR,
\fBERROR\fR. Default: \fBINFO\fR.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file is YAML. Key top-level sections:
.TP
.B storage
Storage backend plugin and options. Default backend is SQLite.
.TP
.B metric
Scoring plugin and threshold options (\fItrip_threshold\fR,
\fIclear_threshold\fR, \fIdebounce_seconds\fR).
.TP
.B detectors
List of detector plugins, each with an \fIid\fR, \fIplugin\fR path,
\fIweight\fR, and plugin-specific \fIoptions\fR.
.TP
.B webserver
Optional HTTP server configuration (\fIenabled\fR, \fIbind\fR, \fIport\fR,
\fIrefresh_seconds\fR, \fIhistory_limit\fR).
.PP
See \fBconfig/config.example.yaml\fR for a fully annotated example.
.SH QT INTERFACE
The main window has two panels.
.PP
The \fBlive status\fR panel (top) shows current detector states, the
weighted score, and the active event if any.
Right-click for a context menu with a manual \fINew event\&...\fR option.
.PP
The \fBdowntime history\fR panel (bottom) shows all recorded events.
Double-click a row to open the event editor.
Right-click for a context menu: \fIEdit\&...\fR, \fIEnd downtime now\fR
(open events only), \fIDelete event\&...\fR, and \fINew event\&...\fR.
.PP
Select multiple rows with Shift+click or Ctrl+click to apply context menu
operations to all selected events simultaneously.
Bulk delete shows a confirmation dialog listing all affected IDs.
Delete operations are restricted to the Qt application and are not
available via the web interface.
.SH WEB INTERFACE
When the web server is enabled the following routes are available:
.TP
.B GET /
Auto-refreshing HTML status page.
.TP
.B GET /report
Date/time range picker with summary statistics, per-category and
per-subsystem breakdowns, and a full event listing with durations clamped
to the selected window.
.TP
.B GET /api/status
Current score, per-detector states, and active event as JSON.
.TP
.B GET /api/events
Recent events (up to \fIhistory_limit\fR) as JSON.
.TP
.B GET /api/events/<id>
Single event by ID as JSON.
.TP
.B GET /api/report?from=YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM&to=YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM
Aggregate statistics and full event list for a time range as JSON.
Defaults to the last 7 days if query parameters are omitted.
.TP
.B GET /healthz
Liveness probe. Returns \fBok\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I config/config.example.yaml
Annotated production configuration template.
.TP
.I config/local.yaml
Desktop development configuration (no external DAQ required).
.TP
.I events.db
Default SQLite database path (configurable via \fIstorage.options.path\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
Run with the local development configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
source venv/bin/activate
mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger \-\-config config/local.yaml
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run with debug logging:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger \-\-config config/local.yaml \-\-log\-level DEBUG
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mu2edaq\-start (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-stop (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-bootstrap (1)
