.TH MU2EDAQ\-SOAP\-SERVER 1 "June 2026" "mu2edaq-downtime-logger 0.1.0" "Mu2e DAQ Tools"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-soap\-server \- mock SOAP run-control server for SoapDetector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python \-m tools.soap_server
[\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR]
[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-state\fR \fISTATE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B soap_server
runs a minimal HTTP/SOAP server that implements the single
\fBgetRunState\fR operation consumed by
.BR SoapDetector .
It is pure-stdlib and requires no SOAP framework.
.PP
The run state can be toggled at runtime by sending a plain HTTP GET
request to \fB/set?state=\fR\fIVALUE\fR, making it easy to simulate DAQ
transitions without restarting the tool.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR
Bind address. Default: \fB127.0.0.1\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR
Listen port. Default: \fB8080\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-state\fR \fISTATE\fR
Initial value of \fBrunState\fR returned by the SOAP operation.
Case-sensitive; use values that match your \fBdown_values\fR /
\fBup_values\fR config. Default: \fBRunning\fR.
.SH ENDPOINTS
.TP
\fBPOST /RunControl\fR
SOAP endpoint. Returns a \fBgetRunStateResponse\fR envelope with the
current \fBrunState\fR value.
.TP
\fBGET /RunControl?wsdl\fR
Returns the WSDL describing the \fBgetRunState\fR operation.
.TP
\fBGET /set?state=\fIVALUE\fR
Sets the current \fBrunState\fR to \fIVALUE\fR and returns the new state.
Does not require a restart.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start with initial state \fBRunning\fR:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.soap_server \-\-host 127.0.0.1 \-\-port 8080 \-\-state Running
.fi
.RE
.PP
Toggle to \fBStopped\fR at runtime:
.PP
.RS
.nf
curl 'http://127.0.0.1:8080/set?state=Stopped'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Toggle back to \fBRunning\fR:
.PP
.RS
.nf
curl 'http://127.0.0.1:8080/set?state=Running'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Fetch the WSDL:
.PP
.RS
.nf
curl 'http://127.0.0.1:8080/RunControl?wsdl'
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mu2edaq\-zmq\-publish (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1)
