.TH MU2EDAQ\-LOG\-WRITER 1 "June 2026" "mu2edaq-downtime-logger 0.1.0" "Mu2e DAQ Tools"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-log\-writer \- logfile diagnostic for LogfileDetector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python \-m tools.log_writer
\fB\-\-path\fR \fIFILE\fR
\fB\-\-message\fR \fITEXT\fR
[\fB\-\-count\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-interval\fR \fISECS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B log_writer
appends timestamped lines to a log file so that
.B LogfileDetector
picks them up during its next poll cycle.
.PP
Each line is prefixed with an ISO-8601 UTC timestamp followed by the
message text. The parent directory of the target file is created
automatically if absent.
.PP
Use message text that matches the \fBdown_patterns\fR or \fBup_patterns\fR
regexes in your detector configuration to simulate transitions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-path\fR \fIFILE\fR
Logfile to append to. Required. Parent directory is created if absent.
.TP
\fB\-\-message\fR \fITEXT\fR
Line text to write. Should match a regex in the detector's
\fBdown_patterns\fR or \fBup_patterns\fR. Required.
.TP
\fB\-\-count\fR \fIN\fR
Number of lines to write. Default: \fB1\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-interval\fR \fISECS\fR
Seconds between lines when \fB\-\-count\fR > 1. Default: \fB1.0\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
Trigger a DOWN transition:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.log_writer \-\-path /var/log/artdaq/run.log \-\-message "RUN STOPPED"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Trigger an UP transition:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.log_writer \-\-path /var/log/artdaq/run.log \-\-message "RUN STARTED"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Write 5 FATAL lines with a 2-second gap between each:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.log_writer \\
    \-\-path /var/log/artdaq/run.log \\
    \-\-message "FATAL error" \-\-count 5 \-\-interval 2
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mu2edaq\-disk\-writer (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1)
