.TH MU2EDAQ\-UDP\-BROADCAST 1 "June 2026" "mu2edaq-downtime-logger 0.1.0" "Mu2e DAQ Tools"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-udp\-broadcast \- UDP diagnostic for UdpDetector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python \-m tools.udp_broadcast
[\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR]
[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-state\fR \fISTATE\fR]
[\fB\-\-interval\fR \fISECS\fR]
[\fB\-\-once\fR]
[\fB\-\-message\fR \fITEXT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B udp_broadcast
sends UDP datagrams to a host or broadcast address in the format that
.B UdpDetector
expects. Use it to simulate a running or stopped DAQ without live hardware.
.PP
The socket is configured with \fBSO_BROADCAST\fR so that the default
broadcast address \fB255.255.255.255\fR works without additional setup.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR
Target host or broadcast address. Default: \fB255.255.255.255\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR
Target UDP port. Default: \fB9000\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-state\fR \fI{running,stopped,heartbeat}\fR
Predefined state. Produces message body \fBDAQ STATE running\fR,
\fBDAQ STATE stopped\fR, or \fBheartbeat tick\fR. Overridden by
\fB\-\-message\fR. Default: \fBrunning\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-interval\fR \fISECS\fR
Seconds between datagrams. Default: \fB1.0\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-once
Send a single datagram and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-message\fR \fITEXT\fR
Override the datagram payload with arbitrary text.
.SH EXAMPLES
Broadcast a heartbeat every second to the local network:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.udp_broadcast \-\-state running
.fi
.RE
.PP
Send to a specific host on a non-default port:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.udp_broadcast \-\-host 192.168.1.100 \-\-port 9001 \-\-state running
.fi
.RE
.PP
Simulate a DAQ stop:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python \-m tools.udp_broadcast \-\-state stopped \-\-once
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mu2edaq\-zmq\-publish (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1)
