.TH MU2EDAQ\-BOOTSTRAP 1 "June 2026" "mu2edaq-downtime-logger 0.1.0" "Mu2e DAQ Tools"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-bootstrap \- create or update the Python virtual environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bootstrap.sh
[\fB\-\-dev\fR]
[\fB\-\-postgres\fR]
[\fB\-\-recreate\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bootstrap.sh
creates the Python virtual environment under \fIvenv/\fR in the project
directory (if it does not already exist) and installs or upgrades all
runtime dependencies declared in \fBpyproject.toml\fR.
.PP
Run this script once on a fresh checkout, and again whenever
\fBpyproject.toml\fR or the requirements files change.
.PP
The
.B start\-mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger.sh
script calls
.B bootstrap.sh
automatically if no virtual environment is found.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dev
Also install development and test dependencies
(\fBpytest\fR, \fBpytest-qt\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-postgres
Also install \fBpsycopg2\-binary\fR for the optional PostgreSQL
storage backend.
.TP
.B \-\-recreate
Delete the existing \fIvenv/\fR directory and rebuild it from scratch.
Useful when switching Python versions or resolving dependency conflicts.
.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PYTHON
Path to the Python interpreter to use when creating the virtual
environment. Default: \fBpython3\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I venv/
Python virtual environment directory created by this script.
.TP
.I pyproject.toml
Primary dependency specification.
.TP
.I requirements.txt
Runtime-only dependency pins.
.TP
.I requirements-dev.txt
Runtime + test dependency pins.
.TP
.I requirements-postgres.txt
Runtime + psycopg2 dependency pins.
.SH EXAMPLES
Standard first-time setup:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./bootstrap.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set up with test tools and rebuild from scratch:
.PP
.RS
.nf
./bootstrap.sh \-\-dev \-\-recreate
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a specific Python interpreter:
.PP
.RS
.nf
PYTHON=/usr/bin/python3.11 ./bootstrap.sh
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mu2edaq\-start (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-stop (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-downtime\-logger (1)
